hello and welcome to the Stellar open
protocol discussion
in these meetings we discussed
core advancement proposals aka caps
which are technical specs that suggest
changes to the Stellar protocol they're
necessary to allow the protocol to
continue to evolve to meet the needs of
the ecosystem
so we we live stream these meetings
so that anyone who's interested can
follow along
although i do want to note it is a
although I do want to note it is a
technical discussion so if you're
watching you may want to take a look at
the cap link to in the show description
there's also a description in the
description all the participants are
listed
we do keep an eye on sort of the the
dialogue that's happening in the chat
box but the goal really is to talk
through questions about the cap that
we're discussing which is cat 42 so we
will only really address questions if
they're directly related to that goal
but we will collect them and take a look
at them later too
today the cap we're discussing is cap 42
titled multi-part transaction sets it
suggests a mechanism that makes it
possible to implement different fee
structures based on transaction set
composition so currently in transaction
set composition it can sometimes be
heavily biased towards undesirable
behaviors including spikes of arbitrage
trades that eventually fail this cap
basically empowers validators to isolate
subsets of transactions that can compete
on fees without causing overall fees to
increase and it also makes it possible
to expand policies to other dimensions
in the future
so cap 42.
again it's linked to before this
meeting cap 42 is drafted that's the
link to it there it was also
discussed on the mailing list and
there's a link to the thread to that to
that discussion thread as well so our
goal today is really just to see if
there are any blockers that would
prevent us from moving it forward
to the next step of its life cycle and i
will stop talking and I'm going to turn
it over to nico who is the original
author of this cap to see
sort of what if he has any questions
that he wants addressed by this meeting
nico
take it away
hi
you can hear me
all right so yeah I'm happy that i got
all right so yeah I'm happy that I got
to get gap 42 because you know it is the
answer to everything of course
and in particular the problem with
fees and
i've already networks in some
ways that we're not
necessarily happy with and when i say we
necessarily happy with and when I say we
here it's the community that has been
also complaining quite a bit about
the number of failed transactions or
or like
patterns that that are just not
the type of patterns we want to see
on the network so anyways like maybe
a little additional background that
is not in the cap itself is that
it's actually on the dev mailing list
but not in the cap is that
as part of of
of the of this
we actually had to roll out some
changes to overlay in back in
december that we're
dropping
based on a heuristic
like but
we think are
likely to be arbitrage trades
and
which mitigated to certain extent
some of the things that
we were seeing at the time
but
that has a lot of undesirable properties
and i think as part of cap 42 my hope
and I think as part of cap 42 my hope
is that we can actually go and fix the
some of those aspects that we introduced
at the time
so in particular like the the type of
aspect I'm looking forward that to
to fix here is
and this is actually true in all
networks like it's not actually a
Stellar specific type of problem
there has been discussions in the past
few months
on
ethereum
and
solana i'd like to name a couple
on changing these structures when it
comes to
to this kind of spam and when i say
to this kind of spam and when I say
spam here i mean it's kind of a funny
spam here I mean it's kind of a funny
thing but it's basically
like a natural thing that happens i
guess when when you have
an opportunity
to for somebody to make money
is
based on
the cost that you have to submit
transactions
if you can make let's say a thousand
dollars on on a trade
well you you'd be okay actually to pay
900 dollars in fees because you make
some money
obviously
this is like
this is where
like the the way
you can end up with
and at the same time if
if all
the transactions on the network are kind
of
derived on the step of keys
then it kind of kills off a whole
category of of other
use cases that
that you want the network to have so
for example
payments or like simple
airdrops or whatever like people want to
do that
that are actually
unrelated to those
to this type of trading trading
activity
so anyways
that's for the background on why why
this cap
and
yeah so like the i don't know like
yeah so like the I don't know like
people had time to to look over in
more detail at the refreshed cap that
i did it yesterday
I did it yesterday
like it has actually two parts to it is
one part that is extending the what
is the
what is attached to a transaction set
basically so that we can add like new
properties to the transaction set
and and the second part is
actually the
the actual reason for this gap which is
changing
how
how fees get calculated within a
transaction set
sorry is the latest version the one
that's in that's in the master branch
in the repo 22 hours ago okay yeah
that's it yeah and I'm sure there are
typos because i kind of updated it
typos because I kind of updated it
quickly yesterday to make sure that
people had time to and to have access to
it but it's a early trough
summer did you raise a hand
yes i did otherwise i tried to be polite
yes I did otherwise I tried to be polite
but niko didn't see
so
first of all i think this is this is
first of all I think this is this is
pretty cool because it takes
advantage of something that's unique to
the ecosystem and like we can
actually prioritize transactions not
only based on fees
this is very
different in other ecosystems because
you know validators are kind of like
incentivized by transaction awards so so
they don't have the motivation to
actually push these kind of changes
it's pretty cool nico i'd like to hear
your take on we've been talking a lot
about strategy for 2022 recently and
things like
speed x and things like smart contracts
in the future these are like
you know more
transaction engines or like transactors
how will cap 42
interact with these or how do you
think they'll like it'll interact with
these features
yeah that's a good question and i think
yeah that's a good question and I think
the this is actually in line with
when i wrote it i was i i thought that
when I wrote it I was I thought that
we we would actually
over time
kind of create more sea lanes or for
lack of better words so an example of
a three lane that i think would make
a three lane that I think would make
complete sense is
to have a separate lane for speed x
trades
given that they're a lot more
efficient
compared to
existing dex operations
and yeah we basically say okay if you
you have the choice between a speed x
trade and a submitted a managed offer to
the network
you're going to go and have
more space basically on that ledger
for speed x-ray
and for smart contracts i mean it's i
and for smart contracts I mean it's i
mean it gets i think a little more
mean it gets I think a little more
complicated when we talk about smart on
tracks like a very
primitive version of this would be well
we are going to maybe create a lane just
for smart contracts that would be like a
simple
first step
obviously there might be
more interesting
interesting things that can be done
on that front but at the minimum it
would be you would create a different
kind of
free regime right for
for smartphone tracks
i mean i guess the thing is it seems
I mean I guess the thing is it seems
like not really optimal for those use
cases like in those use cases it would
be much better to just partition the
transactions because you could you know
then you could just you might want to
for example say that all the smart
contracts get
executed like after all the regular
operations right so just kind of having
these like
intermingled like this index set just
seems like it's gonna add a lot of
overhead and and not be you know what
you would want
so so so i kind of have two reservations
so so so I kind of have two reservations
about this right one is that it just
seems like a little bit too
complicated for what we really need
especially if you want to start having
you know you know blocks with like
100 000 transactions for example which
would be like totally doable with
with something like speedx if they were
all speedx transactions right you're not
going to want to also have a added
overhead of like sanity checking these
index checks and whatever you're just
going to want to blast through your
array of speed x trades and do like a
parallel execution of those
and i guess the second thing that like
and I guess the second thing that like
bugs me a little bit about this
it just seems like very indirect right
either we believe that dutch auctions
are the right thing or we don't right
and
maybe dutch auctions aren't aren't the
right thing
but what we're we're sort of trying
to say like well we're sort of going to
keep the dutch oxygen but we're sort of
not because we're going to let
validators really kind of pick and
choose different sets of transactions
that are going to going to pay different
fees
and
i think the reason is because we want to
I think the reason is because we want to
filter out spam so like
that is a form of censorship maybe it's
okay but like maybe we should just like
be a little bit more direct and say like
validators should you know we're gonna
just have a way for like different
validators to like filter out certain
transactions that we we don't think are
are productive and to the extent that
you might not want that you might want
to say well what if my transaction is
like really really important then i
should be able to like pay a high fee
and like get it in the problem is that
this doesn't actually solve that problem
right because i could i could put a
right because I could I could put a
maximum fee of you know two to the 32
lumens in my transaction but a validator
who wants to censor me could like put me
in my own group with a very low base
fee and then put everybody else in a
group with a higher base fee and it'll
look like you know
you know like the block with that
transaction will like not compare
favorably
potentially to to to other blocks so
or i mean whatever you could just like
or I mean whatever you could just like
filter out the transaction anyway so i
just
i don't see
I don't see
this doesn't seem like as much it seems
like this is partly to solve a problem
but also
partly to
i don't know like for to appear to be
I don't know like for to appear to be
preserving the dutch auction when we're
not and if we're going to have some
extensible way for validators to filter
out transactions why don't we just do
that in a more straightforward way
well
so first of all like the when you say
like we're not preserving the auction
mechanism here what I'm saying is that
validators when they nominate
those transactions those transaction
sets
the expectation is that they would
actually
be doing this type of action in in any
given group
but if they can choose the groups they
might as well not you might as well just
let validators choose the fee for every
transaction and just as well it's the
same thing yeah yeah you can you can do
that straightforward thing just annotate
each transaction with the fee that would
like you know a 32-bit number that's
like or 60
on the right list actually was to just
annotate every transaction with the fee
yeah
but that's like that's actually
even less transparent in terms of what
the intent is
so that's why i didn't do that
so that's why I didn't do that
like it's a
like
that's effectively what you're doing
yeah no i know i know I'm doing that
yeah no I know I know I'm doing that
like I'm basically allowing for this but
i don't want
I don't want
people to be doing like arbitrary fee
structure per transaction but that's
what you're enabling right you're just
making i mean i know it's being enabled
making I mean I know it's being enabled
but that's not what what we
we don't expect for the data to do that
and actually this is there's a
discussion in the
later in the document that that talks
about
because like basically today validators
can already
censor quite a bit
like what gets into a transaction set so
the example of
like following the fee structure today
is already not
exactly right like like if if validity
doesn't want to do it they just don't do
it
and
yeah like here what I'm trying to
promote is more of a compact
i guess like the yeah the
I guess like the yeah the
those indexes thing i agree
those indexes thing I agree
this could be done maybe in a slightly
different way i was trying to preserve
different way I was trying to preserve
the transaction set
itself like the existing transaction
sets
but that's not good either if it turns
out that we want to like actually change
the order in which we execute
transactions then like preserving the
transaction set isn't actually
that useful
right we already so for speed x what we
are what is in the current proposal
is to just like we partition on type and
it's actually not
we actually keep the transaction set at
it as it is
like from a serialized version
because we can always partition after
the fact yeah but it just seems more
useful to have to have it partitioned
ahead of time if you have sort of like
just totally different phases of block
execution i see no
execution I see no
intermingling transactions from the
different phases
that's true
so i mean i guess what I'm saying is
so I mean I guess what I'm saying is
like this will get the job done but i
can think of sort of
much simpler ways of getting the job
done and
it seems like
this cap is too concerned with sort of
like appearances
and those appearances you know
effectively don't matter when what
you're doing is equivalent to something
where every whatever validator wins
nomination can just like literally set
the fee for every transaction
so like
we're giving value if we're going to
give validators that power let's just be
upfront about it
i mean i thought it was pretty upfront i
I mean I thought it was pretty upfront i
was optimizing again for
like ease of audit and
and
and like maybe like more compact
potentially format
but
that's true it could be more compact or
it could be less compact depending on
how many
if you have an extension point per
transaction you at least have an integer
their transaction additional well you
could just change the transaction set
format and add like a four byte feed you
know
no but then
less expensive like
david can you can you articulate your
alternative for a second so that we're
all on the same page
but
the thing is that what we are discussing
here is more like we're actually not
discussing
i think we are discussing more like the
I think we are discussing more like the
format of the like the transaction set
we're actually not
talking i don't think we are discussing
talking I don't think we are discussing
and maybe we should start with that
the the
premise of
allowing to control
fees right because i think that's the
fees right because I think that's the
important one i mean i guess i can see
important one I mean I guess I can see
two i can see
two I can see
i don't have a particular sort of
I don't have a particular sort of
alternative proposal because it seems
like we're trying to do two different
things and those might be better
served by like two different mechanisms
that are
you know each that some of which is like
maybe less complicated or more efficient
to implement than this right so the
first thing that we want is we want kind
of multi-phase block execution down
the line so we'd like to lay the
groundwork for things like speedx and
smart contracts and stuff to coexist
with the legacy Stellar transaction
format
and then the second thing that we want
is we want to like weed out spam or you
know transactions that are gonna gonna
fail a lot and so
i just think you know these could be
I just think you know these could be
handled in two separate ways or if you
wanna have multi-phase blocks let's just
have multiple phases in the blocks and
potentially have like fees per phase if
we want to weed out spam then let's just
you know have a way to weed out spam and
you know
regardless of fees we can just
weed out the transactions
without spam without doing it via
fees is kind of what we're doing now and
it's
actually very
hard to keep up with whatever people do
like you know people are very clever
right they will find better ways to get
around it
what power does this give us to weed out
spam
that that we don't have in the existing
consensus layer in other words i agree
consensus layer in other words I agree
that we want to be able to kind of
unilaterally update like update
Stellar core without going through the
transaction layer or like you know
eventually have like a configurable
algorithm to weed out spam potentially
and maybe different validators have
different different mechanisms but i
don't see how this change to the
consensus layer
actually gives us more power to do that
it may give us some sort of plausible
deniability or something that works it
actually gives quite a bit of new
super powers to the network because
like i was saying
like I was saying
earlier like
if i have an arbitrage trade
if I have an arbitrage trade
where i can make a thousand dollars
where I can make a thousand dollars
ideally i would want people to actually
ideally I would want people to actually
pay up to a thousand dollars in fees if
they if they are really serious about
that transaction
right now they don't that's not what
happens because they're actually
competing with the entire pool of of
transactions
and they are filling up entire ledgers
and then the the ledger fees go up to
okay 20 bucks you know for a transaction
but that's so that's not a thousand
dollars but that's still ridiculously
high
and 20 bucks is not the number i think
and 20 bucks is not the number I think
it was like what we saw was
close to five dollars i think per
close to five dollars I think per
transaction
so your point is you you want the spam
you just don't want it to be as
profitable like if someone can do like
this
yeah that's what that's kind of the idea
here is that like you know in the
current proposal I'm say I'm saying well
any decks any operation that may cross
an offer
is going to be put in a separate bin
and then that bin
we do this the action system on that
so
and then if you're not interacting with
the dex then you're in the you know
general
group
so it's you know that's like first step
like you know we can probably do much
better than this but you know so why
don't we just throw in phases and say
that you know like that's what I'm
saying that's already what I'm saying
sorry I'm saying instead of indexes
let's just have straight up phases and
let's just execute them
in you know
like it's just such that like the dex
operation oh like you would want also
execution order to change i mean like
execution order to change I mean like
yeah
that's fine we want to
we want we want to like
segregate
is going to lay the groundwork for
paralyzation right and so if we're going
to do a change like this or segregating
operations eventually we're going to
want sort of the community of operations
in one group and the non-community in
another and so the
legacy dex operations are exactly never
going to be able to make community
yeah like but like i think the issue
yeah like but like I think the issue
here if we have groups in
like impact somehow
apply order like because we can have
transactions with multiple operations
i think you can basically take that use
I think you can basically take that use
that to your advantage to maybe
get executed in front of somebody else
just because you happen to have the
right operation no it's because you
don't you'll be people will say that the
like we'll flag certain operations like
path payment and you know manage offer
and whatever and say that these
visa
any you know there's a first phase
which is might have a lower fee but the
in order to get into the first phase
there's certain operations that are off
limit like the ones that we we can't
necessarily make efficient and then in
the second phase you can you know
have arbitrary like my point is that
this forces the to think about those
those those feelings or whatever have
to be
somehow
completely independent or something like
like and I'm not sure it's
you can always claim that not
necessarily you could have like you know
like i can see like for speed x like
like I can see like for speed x like
things like that yes you know that makes
total sense for the existing
transaction subsystem i don't know if
transaction subsystem I don't know if
well i think
well I think
we're going to want to have like fast
payments and faster payments than we can
do order book operations so
to
just to you know if we're going to be
making this this change like why not
make it in a way that is is will kind of
facilitate that that future where
maybe you know payment processing could
be parallelized even if order book
processing can't be
it's more like i think of this as it's
it's more like I think of this as it's
it's it may be a multi-dimensional thing
coffees
and then
how do you how do you turn that into a
something that makes sense from a
like a an ordering point of view
right that's kind of i think i don't i
right that's kind of I think I don't i
think that's leave it as open-ended as
the current draft you could just say
that we're going to do that with our
groups
sorry
i think if you say they are groups
I think if you say they are groups
if you're linking the groups to
execution or yeah so you have to apply
other groups
yeah and so each group has
it has a different apply order and a
different fee structure and then we can
kind of
you know have different rules for for
different groups if you want to
execute early and
fast then you know
you should you should have a transaction
that goes in one group i think we could
that goes in one group I think we could
also
i mean it might be worth considering
I mean it might be worth considering
if if we're changing the fee structure
anyway to have a separate
base fee for successful versus failed
transactions right
no
that is wrong like that doesn't work
like i don't see like doesn't work it
like I don't see like doesn't work it
makes things so complicated in the
existing transaction subsystem that
we've talked about that one a couple
times before yeah that would be pretty
tricky
it's super complicated because you can
merge accounts that's kind of one of the
reason for example one of the things
that can happen
you have to refund people at the end
yeah it is kind of crazy stuff
and it doesn't and and this actually
doesn't solve the
it's it's it's not that we want to
penalize transactions you're going to
have buckets the the buckets could they
could be morgan your granularity on the
fee but that's fine i i believe you that
fee but that's fine I believe you that
that would be too hard
for me the most interesting question was
your first question david which was just
like
do we believe in the
dutch auction still like let's just like
start with that like do we think that
even works like do we think that is a
system that is a good system for
blockchains because like we thought that
what like in 2018 well maybe 2018 us was
wrong right like i wouldn't deny that
wrong right like I wouldn't deny that
2018 me was wrong about a whole bunch of
stuff yeah
but that way but the thing is that
if you even if you go back to the
regular fees it doesn't solve the
problem that people are still going to
be
a stupid number and you take over the
ledger
agreed but like if we don't believe in
the
dutch auction thing like one of the
things that i mentioned in like my email
things that I mentioned in like my email
was like
we could just like chart instead of like
assigning a base fee to different groups
we could just say like hey like if
you're inserting groups you actually pay
your bid
so instead of being like a dutch auction
now you become like a first price
yeah i guess like a first price auction
yeah I guess like a first price auction
basically
and then like that that's really
punitive basically to people who choose
high bid high fee bids
but then if you choose those high fee
bids you are guaranteed to pay them
basically so it avoids that situation
where it's like oh there's a thousand
dollar opportunity you build 900 dollars
but you end up paying 20. it's like no i
mean
transactions right so this is one thing
that's changed now so one of the reasons
why you might want to have bid a fairly
high amount in 2018 is because you were
like pre-signing a transaction right and
now we have a solution to that
it's not just that but also like for
like clients like it it really avoids
having to
to keep track of market activity like
the activity like and especially if you
start to say okay
the
predicting fees is basically
is is becoming even harder
i think you have to have this kind of
I think you have to have this kind of
mechanism well no but i mean what this
mechanism well no but I mean what this
current mechanism is is basically you
say the maximum fee and then whichever
validator wins nomination decides how
much you actually pay right like that's
that's what this is going on but it's
sort of right
looks like a dutch auction
kind of because there's these groups are
you running the dutch auction but like
if i can kind of
if I can kind of
pull people into different groups who
are paying who are gonna end up paying
different amounts for the same good then
it's like i might as well just set the
it's like I might as well just set the
price
you know it just it seems like it's
trying to look like it's still a dutch
auction when it's not so let's just be
more directly what it is which is
validators setting fees per transaction
but it's like saying oh yeah like
because like validators may decide to
not do what we want people to do
then
let's throw away the whole thing
right and make plans as complicated as
possible no I'm just saying like figure
out what we want validators to do and
just directly give them that power
instead of no but like that that's fine
like we already like that's the point of
this cap is we give them that power but
then saying
we also get rid of the bidding aspect
well validators could decide to run a
dutch auction right the point is if we
if we're giving values the discretion to
set fees then one of the things they
could do is run a dutch auction but
there's no reason to still have like to
have cap five somehow wired into the
consensus layer cap five is now going to
be
true yeah that's yeah exactly that's
actually that's what the cap 42 already
says it
there's no more
search prices we're running these we're
running these dutch auctions per group
which just seems like an inefficient
we're adding this unnecessary level of
indirection right we're giving we're
giving validators the ability to set the
fee of every transaction and then
we're doing it in this like weird clumsy
bucketing way that you know is gonna
require you to like check large sets of
integers that they're not overlapping
and all this other stuff which is just
like
you know
why just like set the fee per
transaction
but how would you resolve contention if
it came up like if everyone submitted
the same kind of transaction all at once
and there's contention for ledger space
in that situation
it's just you know highest it's
basically the normal
you know like I'm speaking
at auction or a first
price auction but just not at the
consensus layer like it would be the
block the nominator would be the one
who's basically setting the fee rules
for the block as opposed to
having
happen at the consensus layer
and like you don't like when i was
and like you don't like when I was
saying that like we don't necessarily
want to do the dot auction i wasn't
want to do the dot auction I wasn't
saying we don't want to do it for any
transactions but what do you do but
there's no reason you can't implement a
duns auction like as you're nominating a
block right but we might want to like
for certain types of transactions that
we think are very benign we might
actually want to mandate it basically
leave it giving clients the opportunity
to do very simple fee estimation
and then if you're trying to do
something that's very you know
profit generating deliberately profit
generating but not otherwise useful
then you have this more complicated
fee situation to deal with and you pay
higher fees okay but if you want to
audit that then it's going to be easier
to segregate the transactions right i
think I'm not opposed to that at all we
can say like i could definitely see a
can say like I could definitely see a
thing where we say like at the consensus
layer you know group zero
is transaction envelope group zero is
going to be not going to allow order
book things and it's gonna have to be a
dutch auction right and then like number
one you know group one is like
discretionary
sure yeah that
i would be super comfortable with that
I would be super comfortable with that
but like for me it just comes back to
like
do
do we want to do stuff like that do like
if we want to keep the dutch auction
aspect of it i think we should probably
aspect of it I think we should probably
mandate it in some parts and if we don't
want to keep it then we should just be
honest like you were saying and just
like
not even have any pretense of doing it
and just say okay like validators you
choose whatever you want and this is
like cat 42 supports this
basically my argument here would be just
like remove the directions
for what you're supposed to do and
say like do whatever you want i mean
say like do whatever you want I mean
like to mandated
you have to actually include whatever
rule is used for partitioning has to be
part of the protocol then exactly
at least which makes it into that one
subset the rest of them which means that
for any any change we want to make
to
this partitioning scheme is a protocol
change only to that one partition
well like it could be a parameter too it
could be like you know a bitmap of the
operation types that are allowed in
like actually the first version of this
cap was not it was not operation type it
was based on which markets
you would
will you be
you know doing so it was
much more
granular
so that's not the type of thing you
would want to you can encode as a
parameter it's but those would be the
things that aren't in
so basically like when you do a path
payment you are not guaranteed to pay
dutch auction to get the dutch auction
treatment if you do a simple
payment you're guaranteed to get the
dutch auction treatment that's exactly
the kind of thing I'm talking about
and then of course whether or not you
get the dutch auction or something close
to it would depend on the particular
validator and that validator could
decide it depends on the particular
assets that you're touching
do we think that changing the fee
structure for these kinds of operations
meaning like these non the non super
benign very efficiently implementable
operations
would make a big difference
i think
I think
that david you were already questioning
that like is this enough control to
discourage those kinds of things or
split things up appropriately
is that right is the fees the thing that
matters is the
segregation in terms of number of those
operations that can enter the
transaction set the right thing to
control
like what is the thing that matters
yeah
i mean i you know i think that
I mean I you know I think that
oh yeah of course we want to get
you know we want to
some of this is going to be subjective
right it's going to be like validators
are gonna have an idea that there's some
stuff that is you know more valuable
to the network than other stuff
right
and then people creating transactions
are gonna have some idea of how
important their transactions are which
is going to be
reflected in the fee
or the max fee that they're they're
willing to bid for that transaction
and so i think we kind of
and so I think we kind of
we like the idea that you know if my
transaction's really important i can
transaction's really important I can
like pay a lot of money and and get it
included
this cap doesn't actually guarantee that
right because i could bid like a large
right because I could bid like a large
amount for my transaction but the
validator could you know either not
included or could include it in a
transaction set with a low a subset with
a low
base fee and then this my the block
that contained my transaction would like
compare unfavorably to a block that has
like higher fees
for other transactions even though their
max fees are lower
the way that so so that we actually
almost never compare blocks it's true
that's true so and then the the
the spell spell that's actually already
going to happen today so i don't want
going to happen today so I don't want
that okay
i suppose there's not really much
I suppose there's not really much
guarantee that any validator will
include your trend like you can imagine
that david you know you like want to
send justin a payment or something to
like close out a payment channel or
something
and you're willing to pay like a million
xlm to do it yeah but like maybe me
and nico and tomer are the validators
and we're just like yeah
maybe not and then we just like
refused to include your transaction is
that that you know
if some
if some validator eventually if
there's some validator willing to do it
and that validator eventually wins
consensus then it will your transaction
will see the light of day yeah
right you need consent you need
some
offline agreement basically to really
censor transactions
and that's that doesn't change this cap
i don't think this cap can change that
I don't think this cap can change that
it changes it a little
well no i guess not not really
well no I guess not not really
not any amount that matters i think
we have not heard from
lee and
not much from tumer where do you guys
kind of stand on all of this
i i kind of want to understand
I I kind of want to understand
it sounds like david has a much like
more simplified approach I'm trying
to understand like from a mechanical
perspective what this looks like
what is
what are the protocol changes required
if any for validators to start assigning
random fees
or not random fees to
to transactions
yeah I'm
yeah i think about this but i think like
yeah I think about this but I think like
david has a point if we're just like
pretending with this
with this like group based
approach
you know like we can implement that
logic without that so
do we really need that
i mean like
I mean like
so the group thing is more like yeah
like i don't really care that's more
like I don't really care that's more
like
like i said it's a sterilization format
like I said it's a sterilization format
problem like i think we still have
problem like I think we still have
like the new thing i think the the new
like the new thing I think the the new
point that that david raised which is
interesting is
should we
basically hard code
the
this split that is in the proposal right
now as an optional thing
so that should like this split being
dex versus non-dex
the part i don't know here is
that
there's like a presumption there that
that non-decks
operations
or yeah transactions
we're not going to need to do to
to split that further
you know
oh
sure
or without going through consensus sure
i guess
I guess
put another way do we feel that for
certain kinds of transactions people
should be guaranteed the dutch auction
and the
validator shouldn't have discretion
that's the question i was wondering too
that's the question I was wondering too
david and
i think nico thinks the answer to that
I think nico thinks the answer to that
is yes
i i am also inclined to think the answer
I I am also inclined to think the answer
to that is probably
yes
I'm not sure maybe I'm wrong that niko
thinks that but i think he thinks that
thinks that but I think he thinks that
based on his reaction when we were
talking about removing the dutch auction
i mean i like the
I mean I like the
that system that you basically express
you know a maximum bid and then you
and then it's the job of adidas to try
to minimize this
for you
okay so this
this does not currently guarantee that
right cap 42.
so
the the the
well there is no
i i guess like the
I I guess like the
yeah there's no guarantee
either even with the current system
right like i could basically decide as a
right like I could basically decide as a
validator or all the ideas could decide
that
they're going to
group all expensive
transactions in one ledger i know you
transactions in one ledger I know you
know that ledger is the stupid ledger
right yeah
at least you know that is a valid dutch
auction right you know at least you know
there's you know 999 other operations
that are willing to pay that that base
fee or whatever
right
but i mean
but I mean
or you could say like fine you don't
really have that guarantee because you
know the validators could hold the
expensive operations
but
it's the so i guess like maybe what
it's the so I guess like maybe what
you're getting at is
we're effectively giving validators the
ability to just set a different fee for
every transaction then let's just do
that and not like wrap it up in some
kind of auction thing
no but i can't so either yeah i mean
no but I can't so either yeah I mean
like it's i i agree but like the
like it's I agree but like the
alternative to this would be to say
okay like because your point about
okay I'm going to have a transaction
where i put a fee of million dollars
where I put a fee of million dollars
right and
i mean as a
I mean as a
as a transaction submitter
i would feel very nervous about this
I would feel very nervous about this
because now if i have a
because now if I have a
leader that wants to play a joke on me
they can
and they would actually pay nothing i
mean nobody's actually i mean only that
mean nobody's actually I mean only that
one person is going to pay one million
right and that's what cap 42 lets you do
so right now i have 42 lets you do that
so right now I have 42 lets you do that
i the
I the
original version that i wrote was
original version that I wrote was
actually
requiring that those groups would be of
a minimum size
to actually avoid this type of situation
but i thought it was maybe not
but I thought it was maybe not
so basically you require to do this
those
this bidding system
on
at least some number of
of transactions
but yeah i don't know
but yeah I don't know
that would maybe mitigate this
and it kind of makes
it kind of makes both versions work in a
way
because now you can have arbitrary sets
or arbitrary groups
where you do this bidding thing
i mean i
I mean i
wonder if the right thing I'm just kind
of breaking it down that this is
not
very nice
in terms of like how much of the
ecosystem it impacts but i mean i almost
ecosystem it impacts but I mean I almost
wonder if you sort of you want to give
you want to give people submitting
transactions a choice so if i had
transactions a choice so if I had
some flags on my transaction then i
could say hey I'm willing to
i prefer the validators play with the
I prefer the validators play with the
priority of my transaction delayed or i
prefer that validators play with the fee
that I'm paying or something right and
so then you'll either
you'll you'll depending on what you
select you'll either pay a potentially
very high fee if validators want you to
or you'll get de-prioritized
if they don't like the fact that it's a
path payment or that it's touching some
asset that we think is a spam asset
yeah i strongly oppose that idea i
yeah I strongly oppose that idea i
think that we have a problem right now
with with the dutch auction where
people don't understand it because it's
so different from other networks
and understanding
like adding other dimensions to
to like prioritization besides just
feet
is is just gonna
confuse the hell out of people
well what if there's just one bit which
says i want to participate in the dutch
says I want to participate in the dutch
auction or i want to pay this fee
auction or I want to pay this fee
and so then
like like yeah why i mean i still
like like yeah why I mean I still
understand why you would want people to
like what the what the current contract
with the network is is that you put a
fee bid and you may pay up to this
number
that's good that's the contract it's
fairly simple i think to understand
fairly simple I think to understand
maybe you don't maybe it's harder to
understand when my transaction is going
to be included
but at least you know
it's
the contract is simple
yeah i agree with niko i think that like
yeah I agree with niko I think that like
the current the current contract doesn't
have to change even if the underlying
mechanism changed like basically this is
the amount the maximum amount I'm
willing to pay maybe if it's an
opportunity I'm going to pay the whole
thing maybe it's for something else
you're going to pay like the validators
can change the logic without having to
have like wallets start like exposing a
weird interface that's true but but we
are the validators are gonna have to
make a decision right they're gonna say
like either you're willing to pay a lot
and either I'm going to you know
charge you a lot or I'm gonna charge you
the same as everybody else
right so we're now giving the validators
that discretion
and you know if we think that the if we
think that the dutch auction is a good
thing and we think that certain
transactions should be guaranteed the
dutch auction I'm I'm not sure i believe
dutch auction I'm I'm not sure I believe
this right but it's it's plausible like
I'm I'm not taking it aside
then maybe make it explicit in the in
the transaction itself and
as opposed to
i don't see how like that you can make
I don't see how like that you can make
it really explicit i mean like you have
it really explicit I mean like you have
to have a market to afford this to
to work
that's why i was saying like maybe it's
that's why I was saying like maybe it's
more like
i
ensuring that people are actually part
of a market when they are doing this
building they expect some bidding
like you know i want to be competing
like you know I want to be competing
with at least
five people or ten people i don't know
five people or ten people I don't know
what the number is but like
sometimes something like that
can we go back a little bit to this
like if we actually
combine
the
groups and apply order like make them
the same thing
i think this
I think this
may create
it depends if like how many groups we
have but like i
think
if we think that people are going to be
if we want people to add more groups of
our time
doesn't that leave too much
does that give too much kind of power
to validators now that they can control
apply order right now they don't really
control that
well i mean the the the rules for
well I mean the the the rules for
apply order could go through consensus
potentially
or some some rules i mean so like i
or some some rules I mean so like i
could definitely imagine a situation
where like you know in the long term
there's like four groups you know
there's
there's speed x there's
fast legacy operations there's slow
legacy operations and then there's like
smart contracts
yeah exactly like so those groups i i
yeah exactly like so those groups I i
understand those groups i don't
understand those groups I don't
understand how
inside those groups
fees would impact apply order
okay two things to interject here one
there's actually already a cap about
arbitrary transaction orders so we
should probably all review it at some
point and incorporate that information
into this conversation because we
probably already argued about this like
three years ago
and since we didn't do that for all the
reasons so we should learn what we
learned back then
it's 14. it was written by jeremy
i i don't remember what it says either i
I I don't remember what it says either i
just remember it having it i just
just remember it having it I just
remembered having the word adversarial
transaction ordering and I'm like ah yes
the i think the word adversarial made
the I think the word adversarial made
this pretty unpopular
but the
the second thing i want to add is like
the second thing I want to add is like
i think probably to make this grouping
I think probably to make this grouping
thing sane
the fees and the groups would have to be
on different like unorthogonal axes
otherwise like this is gonna just be a
nightmare i think nico
nightmare I think nico
probably
okay what's that what's your
sorry i missed your comment
sorry I missed your comment
like you were saying like how would
the fees
impact the ordering within the groups
and like you know what about the number
of groups and stuff like that i mean
of groups and stuff like that I mean
probably like fees and apply and like
phases should be separate kind of
grouping or tagging or whatever system i
know that's that's what I'm saying like
i don't like the idea of mixing the two
I don't like the idea of mixing the two
concepts yeah yeah i don't think they
concepts yeah yeah I don't think they
should be mixed i think that would be a
should be mixed I think that would be a
mess
that'd be really really complicated
right but like
maybe the the things that maybe as part
of those changes if we mess with the
transaction set we should make it that
it's easy to add more
phases i guess
phases I guess
even if we're not adding a phase with
this
with
this change because we don't have the
need for that
right now
i think we i mean i can see given that
I think we I mean I can see given that
I'm adding this generalized transaction
set thing like maybe
it should be easier to have phases to
it
now i don't think it's that easy
now I don't think it's that easy
actually
because it's using this index thing
and yeah maybe i should just ditch that
and yeah maybe I should just ditch that
and then instead it's like you actually
have actual
vectors and yeah
i would like that more
so we are getting close to the hour and
i guess my question is you know it seems
I guess my question is you know it seems
like there are
there's more to discuss than there's
more to think about
what's the best way to move the
discussion forward
i mean i think there are like a few so
I mean I think there are like a few so
there are like a few interesting
questions here there's the
yeah the action system
like what do we do with this
and then there's the actual structure of
the like
how can we do
what type of groups can exist or not
exist outside of the protocol
so i think there's also work that
so I think there's also work that
there's something that doesn't need to
go through the transaction there i don't
go through the transaction there I don't
know how you guys have like what the
current state of this is but i think
current state of this is but I think
that there's going to be some
configuration
some way of configuring Stellar core to
say like which transactions we think are
you know should be prioritized and so
that doesn't need to go through the
consensus layer that's what's going to
like you know basically
implement the discretion that validators
have but
having
some part of that kind of design
sketched out i think would potentially
sketched out I think would potentially
inform
the debate over what the the consensus
layer like transaction segregation
mechanism should look like
there is a like a super duper ultra
primitive version of that that already
exists
super super primitive
but i do think it'd be interesting to
but I do think it'd be interesting to
kind of think about like
what
like what could we actually make
expressible in a pretty simple way
because like if there's nothing that's
really useful that we can express
then that really lends itself towards
saying like okay like these things
probably like too complicated to express
they're not configurable validators
won't be able to do it etc whereas if we
can think of lots of useful things that
you can express simply and it's like
actually like we should feel free to
give validators a lot of power to make
you know same decisions and they can
configure it easily
i think that matters a lot i mean like
I think that matters a lot I mean like
the yeah like the i guess they're like
the yeah like the I guess they're like
different things here there's like
because my
what i thought here my intent here was
what I thought here my intent here was
not necessarily to make it
like
something that you would necessarily
you know do
in as a config right it's not like a
config file that people deploy i thought
config file that people deploy I thought
it would be more of a
you make actual changes to Stellar call
and then those things get
you know i mean i think a config file
you know I mean I think a config file
would be better because i mean it would
would be better because I mean it would
the point is it's better but it's
it's it gets a lot more complicated
in terms of i mean i really changing
in terms of I mean I really changing
Stellar
changing consensus of course is is
easier right and we'd rather tell people
hey you know because of this thing like
please compile the you know this latest
version of Stellar core which is still
the same protocol version but that's
still pretty heavyweight so
it would be nice at least to rule out
that a config file isn't sufficient
how do you feel about a hook david like
what we do for history
maybe yeah
because then we could just like
basically just like vomit out the set of
transactions that we have in memory at
your script
and say like hey man this is your
problem you figure it out
yeah or you know it could even be if we
keep care about efficiency it could be
like a plug-in or something right that
you know
but but like what does it
look like maybe the plug-in just like
assigns a small integer to each
transaction which is it's sort of it's
bucket number or something and then
there's a config file that assigns
minimum fees or relations of fees
between buckets i i don't know like and
between buckets I don't know like and
right now I'm just making some up so but
to have at least one concrete design on
the table not an implementation just a
design i think would
design I think would
would make the the would make it a lot
easier to discuss cap 42 and the various
possible changes to cap 42 in in in like
its concrete context
i mean like the other thing that would
I mean like the other thing that would
happen that sounds like like
like it's getting into let's see how
what type of complicated policy we would
want to implement
and and is too expressive enough or is
it too complicated for the things that
we want to do well
like
like i mean like like which policy like
like I mean like like which policy like
i had a previous example of policy in
I had a previous example of policy in
there that i thought was way too
there that I thought was way too
complicated in the context of this guy
because for for me what i want the cap
because for for me what I want the cap
to be is actually
what are the consensus changes
like i like the things that are really
like I like the things that are really
part of the protocol
i don't in a way like i want to
I don't in a way like I want to
to kind of set aside as much as possible
yeah like those type of more complicated
changes that actually we can
do later on and this doesn't require a
cap
no but i mean i just you know i want to
no but I mean I just you know I want to
know like you know like for example i
don't know if this is true but maybe
what we want to do is we want to keep
track of sort of for each asset the
fraction of failed you know path
payments that involves that asset and
you know and then for when it crosses a
certain threshold we want to like you
know
de-prioritize or raise the cost of
transactions involving that asset or you
know just i but now I'm just making that
know just I but now I'm just making that
up right but like let's have an actual
concrete thing of like places where this
would be useful and how it would work in
Stellar core
and once we have that i think it'd be
and once we have that I think it'd be
easier to say like well do we really
need cap 42 or would it be simpler just
like set the price for each transaction
or to have like separate arrays that
would then also facilitate the phase
thing because it could be that the
phases and the the fees for spam should
be solved by two totally separate
mechanisms or it could be that like we
should have one mechanism and like cap
42 should basically like solve both
problems at once and i actually don't
problems at once and I actually don't
know
right now with like so few use cases
whether we should be doing this as like
two separate mechanisms or a single one
the other thing I'm interested in here
is just like
what's our goal
like
is our goal to have less of these
transactions to have them pay more to
have a better distribution of
transactions what is the thing we're
actually trying to achieve
i feel like we'd have more ease
I feel like we'd have more ease
agreeing on the mechanism if we all
agreed on the thing that we wanted to
happen
i don't think we all necessarily have
I don't think we all necessarily have
the same picture of what we want to
happen i don't even know if someone I'm
happen I don't even know if someone I'm
not sure if i even have a picture of
not sure if I even have a picture of
what i want to happen
what I want to happen
i don't like what's the current
I don't like what's the current
situation
but what is the good situation i
don't know and that's what i mean by the
don't know and that's what I mean by the
concrete thing like let's just say like
here's what Stellar core could do here's
a couple of scenarios in which the
network's not going to behave well and
here's how it would be solved with this
plus some cap 42 like thing
and then we can
even we want more examples like the like
the one right now in the cap is the
we can do
groups based on
dex activity so you want more of that
yeah
and i want but i also want to
and I want but I also want to
maybe know like how this would be
implemented in Stellar core like again
like config file change to siebel's plus
plug-in like you know because is it is
it realistic like how how often can we
get people to like
compile new versions of
of we get a new version every month
right so that's why I'm like
do we need people to go and mess with
that more often than that i don't know
that more often than that I don't know
in a
super uncoordinated way
i don't know i could do it very
I don't know I could do it very
interesting
do you know people actually do
upgrade every month or just for the new
protocols
i mean like every yeah at most it's
I mean like every yeah at most it's
like people yeah like
upgrade after like three months or
something yeah so like if people are
only upgrading like for the new version
of the protocol then there's there's no
benefit to removing this from the
consensus layer or or or in order to
remove it or there would be benefit only
if it could be like done by
configuration file as opposed to like a
recompilation right but if you're saying
like with the protocol upgrades every
six months and people upgrade every
three months like okay then
maybe there's some benefit
i mean like
I mean like
so validators do upgrade
like you keep their notes up to date I'm
I'm not talking in general yeah like
people
the the bulk of people takes like two
to three months to upgrade
there's pretty big variation some people
upgrade insanely fast i mean the coin
upgrade insanely fast I mean the coin
quest guys have occasionally updated
before us i think
before us I think
but not everybody is so
so excessively diligent
yeah
all right
okay i think we're out of time for today
okay I think we're out of time for today
but i feel like there are some open
but I feel like there are some open
questions and suggestions
for things to sort of work on next
and i feel like ideally we start to
and I feel like ideally we start to
bring those to the mailing list and plan
to reconvene
with some new thoughts hopefully
the next meeting in two weeks so good
all right awesome thanks everybody
see you soon thank you thanks for
watching out there
you